So we saw that we can use a for loop with an object as long as we also use object keys or object out
values in conjunction with it.
There's also another type of loop called A for in loop which we'll talk about in this video.
The very last loop we have to cover if you have not seen Ahmadiyya yet.
Oh fantastic movie forgot about how great that movie is.
There's a reason it's the only 10 on the list.
OK so for in syntactically is very similar to four of.
We have four per NS variable in an object instead of of an array or an interval.
The main difference is that a four of will iterate over the actual values in an array or an admirable
in a string.
Each character in an array each value a four in will loop over the keys the properties in an object.
So here's an example.
Object.
Jeopardy winnings.
This represents Ken Jennings.
If you are familiar with him think he's the all time winningest Jeopardy contestant.
It's how he made all of his earnings or his money from Jeopardy it came in different pieces.
His long stretch of gameplay was two and a half million.
He participated in this IBM Watson challenge where he played Jeopardy against a supercomputer got three
thousand five hundred thousand for a tournament of champions.
It doesn't really matter if you don't watch jeopardy then you must be bored at this point.
So we'll move on.
Let's try using a four in four.
And then we make a variable for lights and then we could just call it property in jeopardy winnings.
We'll console dot log prop.
Perhaps not a great name but sometimes it's tricky to figure out what to name you that variable because
in this case it's kind of easy.
We have very similar data but if we had a user object or we had user name and then we had age we had
email what would be a good variable name that would make sense to hold any of these property names.
Prop was going to be good enough for now.
You'll see people do key or k.
I'll go with Prop let's console that log prop and you can see it.
We get the four keys so it's very similar to what we did with four of where we had an object keys but
we don't have to do that.
This will loop over the keys automatically as long as we have in instead of I changed it to of we get
an error it's not editable four of once in editable four in once an object and that's what we get.
So if I wanted to print out also the value I would do a console log.
Jeopardy winnings of prop with square brackets and there we go.
If I wanted to sum them all together to figure out his total earnings I'll just duplicate this loop
for prop in jeopardy winnings.
I'll make a variable to store the total let total equals zero and then each time through I'll just add
Jeopardy winnings of Prop 2 total jeopardy winnings of prop is going to be one of these numbers.
So we still loop over the keys.
That's the only option we have with a 4 in it's going to loop over the properties the key names.
And then we use that to access the value to get that value out just like a dictionary as we saw earlier
in the object section.
We have a word.
We look it up in the dictionary to get the corresponding definition.
So if I print out total at the end let's do a template literal Ken Jennings total earnings
and then dollar sign.
Curly braces.
Total three point four million dollars.
There we go.
So that's four in one thing.
I do want to point out is that technically you can use for in with an array but there's not really a
good reason to.
Now this gets into that murky area we briefly talked about at the end of the object section where Arrays
are objects.
They technically are objects which means that we can use a for in with an array.
So let's do just a simple hardcoded array for let k for key in this array.
How about eighty eight ninety nine seventy seven sixty six what do you think K is going to be when I
printed out here.
What will we see.
So for each property in this array console log K from 0 1 2 3.
No matter what values I had in here.
If I have four values the property names are always 0 1 2 3.
So we're not looping over the actual elements.
The values don't matter.
We're looping over the properties when we have an object.
Jeopardy winnings and I want to access a piece I use a key property name like regular play and I get
a value out when we have an array.
We do the exact same thing.
But the keys are numbers.
When I look at jeopardy winnings I expand it.
We have the keys and the values.
And if I look at an array and I expand it we have keys and values.
So arrays are just special cases.
There's their special objects where the keys are an ordered set of indices.
Numbers starting at 0.
So that's what we're looping over.
We're looping over the keys here which is not all that useful especially when we already have a for
of loop which automatically gives us the values.
The other thing to know about 4:00 in is that the order is not necessarily set in stone and that's another
reason it's not great to use with arrays the way that for in loops can vary from browser to browser
on the NBN docs.
It says it's an arbitrary order.
In my experience it's pretty stable.
Most of the time in one browser it can change when you go to another browser.
But also if you are updating or manipulating properties that can change the order as well.
Unlike an array where the order is set in stone the first item is always index 0.
The second item is always index 1.
So don't use a four N with an array even though you can.
It's just kind of an odd thing to do.
And that about wraps it up for loops.
We've seen a ton of different loops.
Well it's not that many but we've seen a ton of examples.
We started with four loops and we talked about while loops and we saw four of remember four of loops
are not supported in Internet Explorer at the moment.